<h2>CS 340 Client/Server Development</h2>
<h3>Reflection:</h3>
<p>Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs is an important aspect of the software development process. In this project, I made the project maintainable by creating modular code. This concept keeps code related to certain processes and functions separated from other processes and functions. this allows for code to be changed in one function while not affecting the functionality of another function. An example of this would be the implementation of the CRUD Python module. This module allows for changes to be made to the dashboard without having to change or rearrange the logic running CRUD operations. I made the code readable by creating comments throughout the code explaining what each section does and how it works. This will allow other developers in the future to see the logic of the code and make changes as they see fit. I made the code adaptable by making the code modular. This allows others to add new functions to the dashboard without having to recreate or change the CRUD module. An example of this could come in the form of new features added to the dashboard which could utilize the create, update, and delete functionality of the CRUD module.</p>
<h3>Approach:</h3>
<p>Approaching a problem like this takes a few steps to meet the client's requirements. First, it is extremely important to understand the client's needs. For example, in this project the client wanted filtering options for the database, their logo on the dashboard, a graph showing breeds available based on the currently active filter, and a map showing the location of a selected entry in the database. It's important to understand exactly what is expected before you write a single line of code. Next, it's important to map out your logic and understand what dependencies exist in your program so you can work your way toward the final project. For example, the dashboard depended on the CRUD module and the CRUD module depended on the database, so the most logical way to start development on this project was to first set up the database, then develop the CRUD module, and finally develop the dashboard. It's important to note that all of the database and CRUD module work was completed before this project but it's necessary to understand how the problem-solving process would work if this was all done at once from scratch. Debugging is another important aspect of the approach. You want to debug thoroughly and often. There's nothing worse than writing hundreds of lines of code and realizing there's an error. It's important to deliver a quality, functional product to the client, therefore, debugging is important. My approach to this specific project that I outlined above was the same approach I used for each project in this course></p>
<h3>Application of Concepts:</h3>
<p>Computer scientists listen to problems from a client and find solutions for the client. A computer scientist sees a company manually going through a database in an inefficient way and creates a dashboard or program to manipulate the data and make this process easier and more efficient for the users. Computer scientists are virtual construction workers and engineers. They understand user needs and implement them in a way that makes work easier for the user. I think my work on this type of project would reduce the time needed to process a database and would provide relevant information, and insights into the data more easily and more efficiently for the user. The value of work like this to a company is huge since it increases productivity for the company.</p>
